BCI Telepresence Helmet


Abstract:
The BCI Telepresence Helmet is a device that will provide a user the ability to control a telepresence robot in a remote location. This project aims to fill the employment gap left behind by widespread automation by providing an interface for robotic telepresence that can be operated by many users, especially those with motor-impairment disabilities. This interface will take the form of a BCI helmet, complete with VR headset and surround-sound headphones. Brain Computer Interfaces (BCI) use technologies such as EEG to measure brain waves, classify them using machine learning techniques, and output commands to some external device. BCI systems are currently being explored in areas such as remote surgery, VR therapy, and wheelchair control. However, current BCI systems are expensive, uncomfortable, and/or have no integrated processing/classification frameworks. This project will innovate on previous designs by providing an inexpensive, all-in-one solution for BCI control, especially designed for use in robotic telepresence. The mechanical design will include a custom helmet with VR & headphones, as well as the EEG headset with adjustable size. The electrical design will involve a custom PCB that includes: 3 specialized EEG ADC modules, 32-bit microcontroller, 24 input amplifiers, and wireless communication module. Finally, the project will include designing software that handles preprocessing, feature extraction, and machine learning for the BCI control signals. The BCI Telepresence Helmet will provide a new modality for robotic telepresence and VR interactions, transforming the way that work is performed and augmenting the abilities of workers in a wide range of industries.
